---
layout: post
title: "Neuronal oscillations level sets for activity constancy: from single neurons to networks"
author: "Guillermo Villanueva"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: neuron.jpeg
tags:
- Computational Neuroscience
- Mathematical Modelling
- MATLAB
---

Neural oscillatory patterns can be characterized by a number of attributes such as frequency, amplitude, duty cycle, characteristic transition times between silent and active phases, and number of spikes per burst. The value of these attributes are determined by the interplay of the participating currents and, for the appropriate currents, can be captured the maximal synaptic conductances. Experimental and theoretical work has shown that multiple combinations of parameters can generate patterns with the same attributes. This endows neurons and networks with flexibility to adapt to changing environments and is substrate for homeostatic regulation.

At the same time, it presents modelers with the phenomenon of unidentifiability in parameter estimation. Attribute Level sets (LSs) in parameter space are curves (surfaces or hypersurfaces) joining parameter values for which a given attribute is constant. Typically, but not always, LSs are attribute-dependent. In previous work it has been characterized the dynamic compensatory mechanisms leading to the generation activity-attribute LSs in realistic models for single neurons. Whether and under what circumstances the attribute LSs for individual neurons are conserved in the networks in which they are embedded and what additional network level sets emerge is not well understood.

In this work we describe a canonical (C-) model for oscillations LSs for single cells exhibiting a wide range of realistic neuronal oscillatory patterns. The model is canonical in the sense that all attributes share the same LS (the oscillations are identical along LSs) and can be considered as an idealization of the familiar, conductance-based two-dimensional models.

A systematic symmetry breaking in the C-model leads to the familiar phase-plane diagrams for neuronal oscillations and to the separation of LSs for different attributes. The LSs for individual C-cells are preserved in networks of C-cells connected via gap junctions where all cells belong to the same LS, but are not necessarily identical.

In contrast, LSs are not preserved for excitatory or inhibitory networks, except for certain connectivity patterns for which the model symmetries are maintained. However, new level sets emerge in these networks. We characterize them in terms of the single cell LSs and the connectivity parameters for both homogeneous and heterogeneous networks where individual cells are identical or not, respectively, within the considered LS.

You can download the thesis [here]({{ site.url }}/assets/TFG_final.pdf)
